supabase/README.md, before:

# Supabase Database Setup

This directory contains SQL migration files for the Movie Stock Trading System.

## Setup Instructions

### 1. Install Supabase Client

```bash
npm install @supabase/supabase-js
```

### 2. Set Environment Variables

Add these to your `.env.local` file:

```env
NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL=https://your-project.supabase.co
NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=your-anon-key
SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY=your-service-role-key
```

### 3. Run SQL Migration

1. Go to your Supabase project dashboard
2. Navigate to SQL Editor
3. Open `supabase/migrations/001_market_schema.sql`
4. Copy and paste the entire SQL file
5. Click "Run" to execute

This will create:
- All tables (market_users, movie_stocks, portfolios, market_history, transactions)
- All indexes for performance
- RPC functions (buy_stock, sell_stock, update_user_net_worth, get_chart_data)
- Row Level Security (RLS) policies
- Triggers for auto-updating timestamps and creating market users

### 4. Verify Setup

After running the migration, verify:

1. **Tables created**: Check in Supabase Table Editor
2. **Functions created**: Check in Supabase Database > Functions
3. **RLS enabled**: Check in Supabase Authentication > Policies
4. **Trigger works**: Create a test user in Supabase Auth and verify `market_users` entry is created automatically

## Migration File Structure

- `001_market_schema.sql` - Complete database schema with all tables, functions, and policies

## Important Notes

- The `buy_stock` and `sell_stock` functions use `FOR UPDATE` locks to prevent race conditions
- The `get_chart_data` function automatically downsamples old data for performance
- All RLS policies ensure users can only access their own data
- The trigger `on_auth_user_created_market` automatically creates a market_user entry when a new auth user is created

Commit message:

Add stock trading API endpoints for buying and selling shares, along with user portfolio retrieval. Implement shared API utilities for authentication and request validation. Update Supabase migrations for new RPC functions compatible with Firebase Auth. Enhance README with migration instructions.

supabase/README.md, after:

# Supabase Database Setup

This directory contains SQL migration files for the Movie Stock Trading System.

## Setup Instructions

### 1. Install Supabase Client

```bash
npm install @supabase/supabase-js
```

### 2. Set Environment Variables

Add these to your `.env.local` file:

```env
NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL=https://your-project.supabase.co
NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=your-anon-key
SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY=your-service-role-key
```

### 3. Run SQL Migrations

**Migration 1: Core Schema**
1. Go to your Supabase project dashboard
2. Navigate to SQL Editor
3. Open `supabase/migrations/001_market_schema.sql`
4. Copy and paste the entire SQL file
5. Click "Run" to execute

This will create:
- All tables (market_users, movie_stocks, portfolios, market_history, transactions)
- All indexes for performance
- RPC functions (buy_stock, sell_stock, update_user_net_worth, get_chart_data)
- Row Level Security (RLS) policies
- Triggers for auto-updating timestamps and creating market users

**Migration 2: Firebase Auth Compatible RPC Functions (Required if using Firebase Auth)**
1. Open `supabase/migrations/002_market_rpc_with_user_id.sql`
2. Copy and paste the entire SQL file
3. Click "Run" to execute

This creates alternative RPC functions that accept `user_id` as a parameter:
- `buy_stock_with_user(user_id, movie_id, quantity)` - Works with Firebase Auth
- `sell_stock_with_user(user_id, movie_id, quantity)` - Works with Firebase Auth

**Note:** If you're using Supabase Auth, you can skip Migration 2 and use the original `buy_stock()` and `sell_stock()` functions from Migration 1.

### 4. Verify Setup

After running the migration, verify:

1. **Tables created**: Check in Supabase Table Editor
2. **Functions created**: Check in Supabase Database > Functions
3. **RLS enabled**: Check in Supabase Authentication > Policies
4. **Trigger works**: Create a test user in Supabase Auth and verify `market_users` entry is created automatically

## Migration File Structure

- `001_market_schema.sql` - Complete database schema with all tables, functions, and policies

## Important Notes

- The `buy_stock` and `sell_stock` functions use `FOR UPDATE` locks to prevent race conditions
- The `get_chart_data` function automatically downsamples old data for performance
- All RLS policies ensure users can only access their own data
- The trigger `on_auth_user_created_market` automatically creates a market_user entry when a new auth user is created
