README.md, before:

# Indian Movie Database

A comprehensive movie database and social platform for Indian cinema enthusiasts. Browse movies, manage your watchlist, compare films, read news, and engage with the community.

## Features

| Feature | Status | Description |
|---------|--------|-------------|
| ✅ **Personal Profile** | ✅ | A dedicated profile page displaying your avatar, username, and activity |
| ✅ **Watchlist** | ✅ | A simple "Bookmark" button to save movies you want to watch later |
| ✅ **Watched History & Ratings** | ⬜ | A personal log of every movie you have seen, along with your 1-10 rating |
| ✅ **Movie Discussions** | ⬜ | A comment section on every movie page to reply to others and start threads |
| ✅ **Cinema News Feed** | ✅ | A "News" tab that shows the latest industry updates (comments feature pending) |
| ✅ **User Reviews** | ⬜ | A place to write and publish detailed reviews for the community to read |
| ✅ **Write Articles** | ⬜ | A feature allowing you to write and publish your own blog posts or essays about cinema |
| ✅ **Creator Collections** | ⬜ | Curated lists highlighting top directors and actors to help you discover their best work |
| ✅ **Likes & Engagement** | ⬜ | The ability to "Like" comments, reviews, and articles to show what you enjoy |
| ✅ **Movie Comparator** | ✅ | A tool to compare movies side-by-side, showing ratings, awards, and a custom "Match Score" based on your unique tastes |
| ✅ **IMDB and Rotten Tomatoes Ratings** | ✅ | Add IMDB and Rotten Tomatoes ratings in comparator |
| ✅ **IMDB 8+ and RT 80%+ Sections** | ⬜ | Make a separate section of IMDB 8+ and Rotten Tomatoes 80%+ |
| ✅ **Genre Based Sections** | ✅ | Genre based sections in the home page to scroll and check |

## Tech Stack

- **Framework**: Next.js 16
- **Language**: TypeScript
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS
- **UI Components**: Shadcn UI
- **Authentication**: Firebase Auth
- **Database**: Firebase Firestore
- **Movie Data**: The Movie Database (TMDB) API
- **Ratings Data**: OMDb API (IMDb & Rotten Tomatoes)

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+ 
- npm, yarn, pnpm, or bun
- Firebase project setup
- TMDB API key
- OMDb API key

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd indian-movie-db
```

2. Install dependencies:
```bash
npm install
# or
yarn install
# or
pnpm install
```

3. Set up environment variables:
Create a `.env.local` file in the root directory with the following variables:

```env
# Firebase Configuration
NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_API_KEY=your_api_key
NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_AUTH_DOMAIN=your_auth_domain
NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_PROJECT_ID=your_project_id
NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_STORAGE_BUCKET=your_storage_bucket
NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_MESSAGING_SENDER_ID=your_sender_id
NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_APP_ID=your_app_id

# Firebase Admin SDK
FIREBASE_PROJECT_ID=your_project_id
FIREBASE_CLIENT_EMAIL=your_client_email
FIREBASE_PRIVATE_KEY=your_private_key

# TMDB API
NEXT_PUBLIC_TMDB_API_KEY=your_tmdb_api_key

# OMDb API
OMDB_API_KEY=your_omdb_api_key
```

4. Run the development server:
```bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
# or
pnpm dev
```

5. Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your browser.

## Project Structure

```
indian-movie-db/
├── app/
│   ├── api/              # API routes
│   ├── components/        # React components
│   ├── contexts/          # React contexts
│   ├── movie/            # Movie detail pages
│   ├── watchlist/        # Watchlist page
│   ├── news/             # News feed page
│   ├── compare/           # Movie comparison page
│   └── page.tsx          # Home page
├── lib/
│   ├── firebase/         # Firebase configuration
│   └── auth/             # Authentication utilities
├── components/
│   └── ui/               # Shadcn UI components
└── docs/                  # Documentation
```

## Key Features Implementation

### ✅ Watchlist
- Add/remove movies to watchlist
- View all saved movies in dedicated page
- Bookmark button on movie cards and detail pages

### ✅ Movie Comparator
- Compare up to 4 movies side-by-side
- Shows ratings (TMDB, IMDb, Rotten Tomatoes)
- Displays runtime, budget, revenue, genres
- Awards information
- Match score calculation

### ✅ Cinema News Feed
- RSS feed aggregation from multiple sources
- Latest industry updates
- News cards with images and descriptions

### ✅ Genre Sections
- Horizontal scrollable sections for each genre
- Genre-based movie discovery
- "View All" links for each genre

### ✅ IMDB & Rotten Tomatoes Ratings
- Ratings displayed in movie detail pages
- Ratings shown in comparator tool
- OMDb API integration for rating data

## Development

### Build for Production

```bash
npm run build
```

### Start Production Server

```bash
npm start
```

### Linting

```bash
npm run lint
```

## Deployment

The easiest way to deploy is using [Vercel](https://vercel.com):

1. Push your code to GitHub
2. Import your repository in Vercel
3. Add environment variables
4. Deploy

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

## Acknowledgments

- [The Movie Database (TMDB)](https://www.themoviedb.org/) for movie data
- [OMDb API](http://www.omdbapi.com/) for ratings data
- [Firebase](https://firebase.google.com/) for authentication and database
- [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) for the framework
- [Shadcn UI](https://ui.shadcn.com/) for UI components

Commit message:

Implement Watched History & Ratings feature, allowing users to track watched movies, rate them on a 1-10 scale, and write optional reviews. Introduce API endpoints for managing reviews, enhance movie detail and watched history pages with rating functionalities, and update UI components for better user interaction. Update README to document new features and usage instructions.

README.md, after:

# Indian Movie Database

A comprehensive movie database and social platform for Indian cinema enthusiasts. Browse movies, manage your watchlist, compare films, read news, and engage with the community.

## Features

| Feature | Status | Description |
|---------|--------|-------------|
| ✅ **Personal Profile** | ✅ | A dedicated profile page displaying your avatar, username, and activity |
| ✅ **Watchlist** | ✅ | A simple "Bookmark" button to save movies you want to watch later |
| ✅ **Watched History & Ratings** | ✅ | A personal log of every movie you have seen, along with your 1-10 rating. See [documentation](./docs/watched-history.md) for details |
| ✅ **Movie Discussions** | ⬜ | A comment section on every movie page to reply to others and start threads |
| ✅ **Cinema News Feed** | ✅ | A "News" tab that shows the latest industry updates (comments feature pending) |
| ✅ **User Reviews** | ⬜ | A place to write and publish detailed reviews for the community to read |
| ✅ **Write Articles** | ⬜ | A feature allowing you to write and publish your own blog posts or essays about cinema |
| ✅ **Creator Collections** | ⬜ | Curated lists highlighting top directors and actors to help you discover their best work |
| ✅ **Likes & Engagement** | ⬜ | The ability to "Like" comments, reviews, and articles to show what you enjoy |
| ✅ **Movie Comparator** | ✅ | A tool to compare movies side-by-side, showing ratings, awards, and a custom "Match Score" based on your unique tastes |
| ✅ **IMDB and Rotten Tomatoes Ratings** | ✅ | Add IMDB and Rotten Tomatoes ratings in comparator |
| ✅ **IMDB 8+ and RT 80%+ Sections** | ✅ | Separate sections for IMDB 8+ and Rotten Tomatoes 80%+ movies with dedicated pages |
| ✅ **Genre Based Sections** | ✅ | Genre based sections in the home page to scroll and check |

## Tech Stack

- **Framework**: Next.js 16
- **Language**: TypeScript
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS
- **UI Components**: Shadcn UI
- **Authentication**: Firebase Auth
- **Database**: Firebase Firestore
- **Movie Data**: The Movie Database (TMDB) API
- **Ratings Data**: OMDb API (IMDb & Rotten Tomatoes)

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+ 
- npm, yarn, pnpm, or bun
- Firebase project setup
- TMDB API key
- OMDb API key

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd indian-movie-db
```

2. Install dependencies:
```bash
npm install
# or
yarn install
# or
pnpm install
```

3. Set up environment variables:
Create a `.env.local` file in the root directory with the following variables:

```env
# Firebase Configuration
NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_API_KEY=your_api_key
NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_AUTH_DOMAIN=your_auth_domain
NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_PROJECT_ID=your_project_id
NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_STORAGE_BUCKET=your_storage_bucket
NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_MESSAGING_SENDER_ID=your_sender_id
NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_APP_ID=your_app_id

# Firebase Admin SDK
FIREBASE_PROJECT_ID=your_project_id
FIREBASE_CLIENT_EMAIL=your_client_email
FIREBASE_PRIVATE_KEY=your_private_key

# TMDB API
NEXT_PUBLIC_TMDB_API_KEY=your_tmdb_api_key

# OMDb API
OMDB_API_KEY=your_omdb_api_key
```

4. Run the development server:
```bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
# or
pnpm dev
```

5. Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your browser.

## Project Structure

```
indian-movie-db/
├── app/
│   ├── api/              # API routes
│   ├── components/        # React components
│   ├── contexts/          # React contexts
│   ├── movie/            # Movie detail pages
│   ├── watchlist/        # Watchlist page
│   ├── news/             # News feed page
│   ├── compare/           # Movie comparison page
│   └── page.tsx          # Home page
├── lib/
│   ├── firebase/         # Firebase configuration
│   └── auth/             # Authentication utilities
├── components/
│   └── ui/               # Shadcn UI components
└── docs/                  # Documentation
```

## Key Features Implementation

### ✅ Watchlist
- Add/remove movies to watchlist
- View all saved movies in dedicated page
- Bookmark button on movie cards and detail pages

### ✅ Movie Comparator
- Compare up to 4 movies side-by-side
- Shows ratings (TMDB, IMDb, Rotten Tomatoes)
- Displays runtime, budget, revenue, genres
- Awards information
- Match score calculation

### ✅ Cinema News Feed
- RSS feed aggregation from multiple sources
- Latest industry updates
- News cards with images and descriptions

### ✅ Genre Sections
- Horizontal scrollable sections for each genre
- Genre-based movie discovery
- "View All" links for each genre

### ✅ IMDB & Rotten Tomatoes Ratings
- Ratings displayed in movie detail pages
- Ratings shown in comparator tool
- OMDb API integration for rating data

### ✅ Watched History & Ratings
- Mark movies as watched with required 1-10 rating
- Optional review text for each movie
- Complete watched history page with filtering and sorting
- Statistics dashboard (total watched, average rating, distribution)
- Rate movies from detail pages, cards, or history page
- Integration with watchlist (prompt to remove when marking as watched)
- See [Watched History Documentation](./docs/watched-history.md) for complete details

## Development

### Build for Production

```bash
npm run build
```

### Start Production Server

```bash
npm start
```

### Linting

```bash
npm run lint
```

## Deployment

The easiest way to deploy is using [Vercel](https://vercel.com):

1. Push your code to GitHub
2. Import your repository in Vercel
3. Add environment variables
4. Deploy

## Known Issues & Future Improvements

### Caching
Currently using basic client-side localStorage caching with a 5-minute TTL. This provides a simple solution but has limitations:
- Cache is lost when localStorage is cleared
- No cross-device synchronization
- Limited cache invalidation strategies

**TODO: Improve caching implementation**
- Consider implementing React Query or SWR for better cache management
- Add Next.js server-side caching with revalidation
- Implement Redis for persistent cross-session caching
- Add background jobs to pre-fetch popular data

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

## Acknowledgments

- [The Movie Database (TMDB)](https://www.themoviedb.org/) for movie data
- [OMDb API](http://www.omdbapi.com/) for ratings data
- [Firebase](https://firebase.google.com/) for authentication and database
- [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) for the framework
- [Shadcn UI](https://ui.shadcn.com/) for UI components
